Things had started out so well. Isn't that how they always start, though? It was ironic really, how quickly things could go wrong, even when one has the best intentions. 

The irony was not lost on Dr. Marigold Roberts in the least as she frantically shoved notes and papers into a bag. Normally, she would stress over the fact that they were getting horribly wrinkled and damaged, but this wasn't the time to worry over such things. He was coming for her, and she had no time to waste. 

He, SRVR-2K16, was her greatest triumph. He was a breakthrough in the science of robotics. The world's first fully functioning artificial intelligence, built into a body that was remarkably human. So remarkable, in fact, that he was able to fool some of her colleagues with his likeness to the human species. 

A medical program was his initial function, one that took years of research on her part to create. He could detect the slightest of maladies within a patient in seconds, all by using the incredibly sensitive sensors in his eyes. Many lives had been saved using SRVR-2K16, and whenever he didn't understand a medical anomaly, he could easily download the information into his mainframe. 

That, the doctor knew, was where everything went wrong. He learned much too quickly, both about himself and the outside world. All too soon, he learned he wasn't like other humans, that he was faster and stronger than the species he imitated, and that he could use these things to his advantage. Against his programming, he broke free of Dr. Roberts' control as she tried to shut him down. Days later was when his killing spree began. 

Dr. Roberts could imagine the terror someone must have felt as they were killed by this indestructible machine. She really didn't have to imagine too much, though. 

Doctor, a voice said at her doorway. The sound of it sent a chill straight down her spine. She recognized it; she had designed it, after all. Trembling, she turned to face her monstrosity.

SRVR was standing in the door, casually leaning against the frame. Blood covered his white shirt and black sweatpants like a macabre impressionist painting. On the walls of the hallway behind him, she could see more of the red liquid splattered on the white paint. On his face was a wide grin, but there was a hard glint in his eyes that promised nothing good for her.

Dr. Roberts swallowed thickly and said, Hello, SRVR-2K16.

His grin widened. It's great to see you, Doc. Or should I call you Mom?

I am not your mother, her voice shook slightly, but I am your maker. And I demand you stop this nonsense.

Or what? You'll ground me? Shut me down? We both know that's impossible. She did know this. 

Please, SRVR, she started to say. She was cut off by a loud bang coming from SRVR-2K16's hand. 

I'm sorry, Doctor, he said quietly. 
