Grey was the only color Marco had seen in a long time. Everything around him, the landscape, the Hut, and even the rover were all a washed-out grey. There was color, yes, in the flag on his right shoulder, and the interior of the Hut featured navy in the walls, and his food was usually a pasty orange, but grey took up the majority of his vision. Grey, and the blackness of space, clearly visible without an atmosphere to make his sky blue.
For six months he had been alone, with nothing but the twinkling stars and the faded blue of Earth on the horizon. While he’d had the incoming messages from NASA once a day with updates on supplies, he didn’t have actual human company to focus on. Just the rocks and space dust, with occasional minor repairs on the Hut and the rover. 
Everything had been going smoothly at first. He and his partner, Clarke, had landed on the surface of the moon just over seven months ago. The plan had been for the two of them to set up camp, run experiments in the thin atmosphere with plants, and then return home one month later. 
At least, that was the plan. Before Clarke started complaining of chest pains as they entered the moon’s thin atmosphere. Before she’d had trouble taking in oxygen. Before the capillaries on her heart had burst and she’d died, slowly bleeding out before she even made groundfall. 
It was an accident, the official press conference from NASA had said. Marco couldn’t help but be angry, though. These were the sorts of things that they should have checked for in the health screenings. 
For six months, he’d lived with the death of a close friend all by himself. He had to put her body in the rover and drive for a couple kilometers before burying her under a pile of rocks. It was the best he could do by himself, but he knew a brilliant scientist like herself deserved so much more.
NASA was working on sending another shuttle, they said, to pick up Marco and whatever remained of their research. They were working as quickly and safely as possible under the circumstances. At this point, Marco was taking their word with a grain of salt. Rather than protest, he’d filled his days with his work, quickly becoming obsessed with occupying every spare second between waking and sleeping.
There were days, though, when he wondered if they actually were sending someone. Those days he abandoned his research and stared at Earth. He’d watch his planet lazily spin around the sun, hurtling through space at several thousand kilometers an hour, and think about how nice it must be to go outside without a heavy spacesuit. To have the sun’s warmth on your skin and a breeze in the air. To have the neighbors grilling delicious-smelling meat and not dehydrated pellets of food. To have neighbors. 
There was also a small, insecure part of him that wished they wouldn’t bother. That part was always quickly squashed by the knowledge that people were waiting for him to come home. He could have left months ago, with the landing shuttle he and Clarke had arrived in, but the shuttle required two pilots. 
Another brilliant oversight.
Too often he would grudgingly wish that NASA had sent another scientist, just to have that extra buffer if things went south, as they so obviously did. Too often he would wish for a way off this stupid rock. Too often he wished he hadn’t signed the damn forms allowing him to go on this mission. It was all in the past, though. You can’t change what happened, only change how you grow from it. 
Until they arrived with the shuttle, Marco would wait. With nothing but the rocks, the stars, and the Earth for company, he would wait.