Death looked through the eye sockets in his skull at the spectre in front of him. What had once been a fine adventurer was now only a spirit, partially opaque and glowing at the edges. He still wore the clothes he died in, leather armor over a loose-fitting shirt and pants. His hair was shaggy, and it looked like he hadn’t shaved before he died. Death could not see any wounds, so hopefully his passing had not been too unpleasant. The former adventurer stood sheepishly in front of Death, like a child about to receive a reprimand.
“You’re early, Reckless,” said Death in surprise.
“Yeah,” Reckless said, rubbing the back of his neck with his hand, “about that.”
Death sat back in his throne and waited for the inevitable request. The spirit straightened and took in a deep breath. 
“I want another chance at life.”
“No,” Death answered flatly.
“Hear me out,” the former adventurer begged. “I wasn’t done yet.”
“No one is ever ‘done,’” Death responded emphatically, “but passing is unavoidable.”
“You said I was early.”
“True,” said Death, “but I have been known to be wrong about timing before, though.” He looked over the adventurer again, but could not find a clue to his demise.
“How did you die?” he asked quietly.

As far as Reckless was concerned, the quest had been a success. He had been sent to find the Sacred Object by the king of the land, who wanted to make sure it was secure and out of the hands of any adversaries. Reckless found it, vanquished a couple monsters on their way to kill him, and even managed to save a maiden from a nearby village. He hadn’t died, which was enough reason for him to celebrate. Now all that was left was to pass off the Object to the king’s messenger, drink the night away, and start a new quest in the morning. 
All around Reckless, villagers partied and celebrated his slaying of the monsters. A small band was in the corner, playing music barely heard over the noisy crowd. Toasts were made in his honor. Cheers and shouts came from all corners of the pub. 
Reckless smiled to himself as he leaned against the bar. He motioned to the barmaid, the maiden from earlier, and she brought him another drink with a smile. She was a pretty young thing, with soft-looking blonde hair, blue eyes, and charming dimples. Reckless nodded his thanks and slid her a sly grin.
“I don’t know how you do it, master,” Gustaf, his apprentice, grumbled. “Two hours ago you were nearly impaled by a goblin’s sword, and now you’re sitting here like nothing ever happened.”
“You get used to it,” Reckless said, still smiling at the barmaid.
“But is it worth it?” asked the teenager, turning to face him with a raised eyebrow. “I mean, what did you gain from almost getting killed?”
“Free drinks,” quipped Reckless, winking at the barmaid. “And, I found the Sacred Object.” 
He pulled it out of his pocket. It was small, easily fitting into the palm of his hand. It was a dull black in color, the surface littered with tiny craters and holes. It didn’t look like much, but Reckless had been assured that it was very powerful. 
Gustaf was not as impressed.
“It’s a rock,” he groused. “Do you even know what it does?”
“Well, no,” Reckless admitted, pocketing it again. “But seeing as I almost died for it, it must be important. Besides, does it matter? Look at these people. They’re happy I found it.”
Gustaf surveyed the crowd, which was only getting drunker by the moment. 
“Yeah, look at them.”
“Lighten up,” Reckless said, clapping his apprentice on the back. Gustaf spit out a little bit of his drink. “Enjoy yourself for once. I’m giving you the night off.”
“Until you get into trouble again and need rescuing,” the apprentice muttered, settling back against the bar with his glass.
Reckless chuckled good-naturedly, standing up and crossing the room toward the door. He left the pub, having to gently push people out of the way before he made it out.
The night was clear and cold. Above him, stars sparkled in the dark blue sky, the pale moon shining. Reckless grinned upward, giddy from the day’s events. 
“Do you have it?” a male voice asked from the darkness on the street. Reckless watched as the owner of the voice stepped into the light seeping out from the doorway of the pub. He was clearly dressed more for the weather than Reckless was, with a thick-looking coat, hat, and pants.
Without speaking, Reckless fished the Object out of his pocket and tossed it to the man, who he knew to be the king’s messenger. He caught it and shuffled toward the light to examine it. Apparently satisfied, he nodded at Reckless and slipped it into his own pocket.
“Thanks,” he said, giving Reckless the once-over. “Take it you weren’t too badly hurt?” 
Reckless shook his head.
“I had a run-in with a few goblins, but nothing too serious.”
The messenger grunted.
“You live up to your name, Reckless.” He turned to leave. “Take care of yourself. I’m sure the king will send me if something else happens.”
Reckless watched the man leave. Once he had disappeared into the darkness, the adventurer went back inside. 
The villagers’ partying was still going strong. Reckless sauntered back to his stool beside Gustaf. The barmaid slid him another drink. Reckless toasted her and drank it all in one swallow. He saw Gustaf making a face out of the corner of his eye, but he couldn’t care less.
Reckless reached out and grabbed a handful of peanuts from a bowl on the counter. He tossed a few in his mouth before turning back to Gustaf.
“Where should we go next?” he asked. 
“Anywhere but here,” Gustaf snorted. “These villagers are giving me a headache.”
“Could be the alcohol,” Reckless pointed out cheerfully.
“That would be plausible only if I hadn’t been drinking water all night.”
That’s when it happened. Tipsy from the alcohol and praises he was receiving, Reckless threw his head back to laugh at his young apprentice. A peanut must have been in the back of his mouth, because when he inhaled, he found himself choking.
“Master?” Gustaf asked, eyes going wide. He grabbed Reckless by the shoulders and tried to pound his back. “Reckless, what’s wrong?”
Gustaf’s pounding wasn’t helping, and Reckless’ vision was going black. He found himself slipping through his apprentice’s hands and falling to the ground. His head hit the wooden floor with a sharp crack, and Reckless saw no more.

“...and that’s when I found myself here,” Reckless finished, not meeting Death’s gaze.
Death could only stare at the adventurer. It was, admittedly, one of the worst ways a man like him could have died. If he had his choice, Death knew Reckless would have preferred to die on one of his quests, in the most glorious way possible.
But life rarely gives one what he wants. And neither, he thinks grimly, does Death.
“I cannot grant you your request,” he answered finally. 
Reckless’ shoulders slumped miserably.
“But I can grant you something else.” Death waved a bony hand at the spirit of Reckless. His form began to glow a bright white. He looked at Death in confusion. 
“I send you to Elysium,” Death intoned as Reckless began to shine brighter. “Go in peace, brave soul.”
Reckless beamed at him. He spoke his last words before he disappeared completely. 
“Thank you.”
