Water fell down on the city in a drizzle. Merciful enough to not be fully rain, but still cold enough that most people were staying indoors.  
A bright yellow cab, a stark contrast to the gray world outside, moved down the street with ease, not having to contend with traffic. Even so, the driver drove carefully, wary of the wet pavement and worn tires.
The inside of the cab was relatively quiet, the only noise coming from the old radio built into the dashboard. There were only two people inside: the driver, a fat man in a greasy t-shirt, and his passenger, a thin man in a suit and glasses. The driver was smoking, permeating the already-stuffy interior of the cab with the pungent smell of tobacco. The passenger coughed every now and again, too polite to ask the driver to stop smoking but bothered by the smell all the same.
With a final puff, the driver plucked the spent butt of his cigarette from his thin lips, cracked open his window, and flicked it out onto the street. The thin man in the backseat sighed, both in relief that the man was done smoking, and from the momentary rush of cool air into the cabin of the cab before the window was rolled up again. He seriously considered asking for it to be left open. 
“You got a name?” Asked the driver after a moment, glancing at his passenger in the rearview mirror.
The passenger cleared his throat and answered, “Joseph.” 
“Joseph… Like the guy with the technicolor jacket?”
Joseph winced. “Yes, that Joseph. Though I believe it was a coat, not a jacket.”
“Whatever.” The fat man shrugged. “Where ya from, Joe?”
“Here.” He watched as they drove past a woman hunched beneath a bright red umbrella.
They made a right turn at a light. 
“Got a girl?”
“No.” 
“That’s fine,” he said as though Joseph had asked for his opinion. “What about a cat?”
“What?” Joseph shuffled in his seat, wishing for the window to be opened. “No, it’s just me, I’m afraid.”
“Nothin’ to be apologizing for. Myself, I got a girl, a nice pretty one, and a dog, too.” He jabbed at a picture taped to the dashboard. The woman in it was just as rotund as he was, wearing a top that was much too small to properly cover her berth and shorts that belonged on a woman half her size. There was makeup thickly caked on her face, and her hair was a greasy shade of blonde that could have only come from a bottle. Clutched tightly in her grasp was a tiny poodle, whose fur was so dirty it was impossible to tell its original shade. If anything, Joseph thought, staring at the picture, she looks like a female version of him. 
“She is very pretty,” he said eventually.
“Don’t be getting any thoughts of making a move on my woman, now,” the driver growled. He squinted at Joseph’s reflection in the rearview mirror.
“Believe me, sir, I won’t.” Joseph cleared his throat and looked out the window. Thankfully, they had pulled up outside of his house, sparing him from further awkward conversation. He paid the driver, bid him goodbye, and stepped out onto the street.. 
He forced his way through the old front door, pausing to loosen the sticky key from the lock. From upstairs, the insistent ringing of a telephone echoed through the sparsely decorated house. With an irritated sigh, he threw the keys onto the gray couch in the front room and grabbed the phone. 
“Hello?”
________________
Mobster 


        By the time children are three years old, they have gathered a vocabulary of 200 words or more. It’s at this point they are able to string together small sentences and phrases and, for the most part, be understood when they try to ask something. 
        That being known, Ted has no idea what his three-year-old daughter means when she, in all the seriousness a toddler can manage, tells him about the mobster under her bed. 
        “Don’t you mean monster, sweetheart?” He asks with a patient smile.
        “Mobster,” she insists.
        He wanders into the living room to tell his wife, who is so busy reading her hair product magazine she doesn’t appear to hear him. 
        “That’s nice, dear,” she says, twirling a piece of stiff hair around a finger. “While you’re up, can you get me some water?”
        Ted gets her the water, then goes down the hall to rejoin his daughter in her bedroom. Outside the door, he can hear her talking to herself in an animated voice. 
        Though he’s pretty sure the voice responding couldn’t be hers. Not unless she’s hit puberty at the age of three. Upon looking inside the room, though, the only one in there is his daughter, who brightens at seeing him again. 
        Cautiously, he raises a finger to his lips to quiet her, then sneaks around the room. He checks the closet, behind the door. Nothing. About to give up and blame his imagination, he notices her rapt attention on the space underneath her bed.
        Ted gingerly lowers himself to the floor, laying his head on the carpet. In the dark space, he makes eye contact with something. 
        “Hey,” a reedy voice says, “fuggedaboutit, pally.”
        Ted screams.
________________
Moon
Grey was the only color Marco had seen in a long time. Everything around him, the landscape, the Hut, and even the rover were all a washed-out grey. There was color, yes, in the flag on his right shoulder, and the interior of the Hut featured navy in the walls, and his food was usually a pasty orange, but grey took up the majority of his vision. Grey, and the blackness of space, clearly visible without an atmosphere to make his sky blue.
For six months he had been alone, with nothing but the twinkling stars and the faded blue of Earth on the horizon. While he’d had the incoming messages from NASA once a day with updates on supplies, he didn’t have actual human company to focus on. Just the rocks and space dust, with occasional minor repairs on the Hut and the rover. 
Everything had been going smoothly at first. He and his partner, Clarke, had landed on the surface of the moon just over seven months ago. The plan had been for the two of them to set up camp, run experiments in the thin atmosphere with plants, and then return home one month later. 
At least, that was the plan. Before Clarke started complaining of chest pains as they entered the moon’s thin atmosphere. Before she’d had trouble taking in oxygen. Before the capillaries on her heart had burst and she’d died, slowly bleeding out before she even made groundfall. 
It was an accident, the official press conference from NASA had said. Marco couldn’t help but be angry, though. These were the sorts of things that they should have checked for in the health screenings. 
For six months, he’d lived with the death of a close friend all by himself. He had to put her body in the rover and drive for a couple kilometers before burying her under a pile of rocks. It was the best he could do by himself, but he knew a brilliant scientist like herself deserved so much more.
NASA was working on sending another shuttle, they said, to pick up Marco and whatever remained of their research. They were working as quickly and safely as possible under the circumstances. At this point, Marco was taking their word with a grain of salt. Rather than protest, he’d filled his days with his work, quickly becoming obsessed with occupying every spare second between waking and sleeping.
There were days, though, when he wondered if they actually were sending someone. Those days he abandoned his research and stared at Earth. He’d watch his planet lazily spin around the sun, hurtling through space at several thousand kilometers an hour, and think about how nice it must be to go outside without a heavy spacesuit. To have the sun’s warmth on your skin and a breeze in the air. To have the neighbors grilling delicious-smelling meat and not dehydrated pellets of food. To have neighbors. 
There was also a small, insecure part of him that wished they wouldn’t bother. That part was always quickly squashed by the knowledge that people were waiting for him to come home. He could have left months ago, with the landing shuttle he and Clarke had arrived in, but the shuttle required two pilots. 
Another brilliant oversight.
Too often he would grudgingly wish that NASA had sent another scientist, just to have that extra buffer if things went south, as they so obviously did. Too often he would wish for a way off this stupid rock. Too often he wished he hadn’t signed the damn forms allowing him to go on this mission. It was all in the past, though. You can’t change what happened, only change how you grow from it. 
Until they arrived with the shuttle, Marco would wait. With nothing but the rocks, the stars, and the Earth for company, he would wait.
________________
Memoir
Summers in Spruce Pine, North Carolina were characterized by a muggy heat that made anyone who stepped outside start sweating almost instantly. Even ditzy kids like me knew better than to play outdoors in the midday. Instead, I would play in the late afternoon and early evening, when some of the moisture was mercifully absent from the air. The evening, though, brought bloodsucking mosquitos that left itchy red bumps over my arms and legs.
        More often than not, I was joined by my younger brother, David, in my outdoor playtimes. We would chase each other out the front door, shouting acknowledgement when Mom told us to be back inside before dinner. Into the yard we ran, yelling instructions to whatever game we would play that afternoon. Sometimes, we would play with a tennis ball and racket in a modified version of baseball we called bennis. Other times we were the clumsy servants to an imaginary king, serving His Majesty delicious meals of dirt, saliva, and rocks while trying not to trip over our feet. On rare occasions, Mom would connect the garden hose to sprinkler toys and let us tear through the yard in bathing suits until we were muddy messes. Those days my two reserved sisters would join us outside, jumping through ice-cold water, shrieking in harmony with the cicadas.
        Outdoor time ended with the arrival of Dad in the family’s blue minivan. David and I would race to the driveway to have the honor of first welcoming him home from a long day at work. He’d smile, jokingly comment on how strongly we smelled from playing outside, then herd us back into the house to wash up for dinner. 
        That’s how summer nights would end: the six of us, sitting around the dining room table, spending time together as a family.




Rebekah Goldblatt is a part-time writer, full-time student from Winnemucca, Nevada. Rebekah has been writing her own stories since she was ten, not completely satisfied with the school library’s collection. When she isn't writing, she can be found baking cookies, reading short stories, and dreaming of far away galaxies.
