TEE TWILIGHT ZONE
Season One
"Time Enough at Last"
Teleplay by

ROD SERLING

Air Date: November 20, 1959

1. Standard opening Shot of the sky...the various nebulae
and planet bodies stand out in sharp, sparkling relief. The
CAMERA has begun to PAN DOWN until it passes the horizon and
is flush on the OPENING SHOT OF THE PLAY.

2. INT. SMALL BANK [DAI] LONG ANGLE SHOT LOOKING UP

Through high windows following the beams of sunlight until
we're looking eye level across the bank from the front door.
Three tellers' windows on the left, bank officers' desks on
the right, safe deposit vaults at the far end opposite the
front door, flanking the president's office. CAMERA FANS
left until we're shooting toward the first teller's withw
with the little sign underneath the barred partition which
reads: "Henry Bemis, Teller." DOLLY IN CLOSER until we're
shooting over the partition down on him. He's a rotund, squat,
plain—faced little man in his fifties with enormously thick
glasses which are obviously an integral part of his living.
At this moment he's making change for a customer, but on his
lap is a big heavy book open about halfway. As he counts out
the change he looks down at the book, chuckles, wets his
fingers to separate bills, then wets them again to turn the
page of the book. He finishes counting out the money.

BEMIS
Mrs. Chesters, have you ever read

David Coggerfield?

WOMAN
(grumpily)
How's that?

BEMIS
Wonderful book! Here's this poor
little fellah whose father has passed
on and his mother has married a
miserable man named Murdstone. And
Murdstone has this sister Jane-

WOMAN

(looks up from the

change he's given

her to glare at him]
Mr. Bemisl You short-changed me again.
You own me one more dollar. See?
There's twenty—four here. I should
have twenty—five.

Bemis peers myopically over toward the money, sorts it, then
realizes his mistake.

BEMIS
I'm terribly sorry. I thought there
were five ones there and there are
only four.

(MORE)

BEMIS (CONT'D)

(he hands her another

bill)
I‘m really sorry, Mrs. Chesters.

(then smiling)
There's another character in the
story named Macawber. Mr. Macawber.
He's always being taken to debtors‘
prison-

The woman grunts again, turns her back and starts to walk
away.

BEMIS (CONT'D)
(calls after her)
There's a wonderful woman in it too
named Peggoty. She‘s David's nurse-

3. Med. close shot Bemis He sighs deeply, closes the cage
drawer, goes back to poring over the book.

4. Med. close shot page of book

As seen from over his shoulder. A shadow crosses it. Bemis
switches the book so that it‘s back in the light. Again the
shadow crosses it. This time Bemis looks up.

5. Angle shot looking up toward Mr. Carsville's face This is
the president of the bank, a little martinet of a man with a
perpetually suspicious glint in his eye. Fastidious,
insufferably correct, and about as warm as an ice tray.

6. Two shot Carsville and Bemis

CARSVILLE
I wonder if I might see you in my
office, Mr. Bemis?

BEMIS

(gulps)
Why...why certainly, Mr. Carsville.

(he rises, smiles

diffidently, gulps

again)
I don't suppose you ever read David
Coggerfield, did you, Mr. Carsville?

 

CARSVILLE
(icily)
No, Mr. Bemis, I have not! Now if
you'll be good enough to accompany
me?

Bemis, with trepidation, puts down the book and starts to
follow the bank president past the other two tellers, who
immediately busy themselves at their jobs.

J.

7. Angle shot looking down at Bemis As he walks toward the
office.

NARRATOR'S VOICE

The time is the day after tomorrow;
the place is anywhere so long as it
can accommodate a bank, a main street,
and a library — along with a myopic
little man named Henry Bemis who has
only one passion in life and that is
to read.

(a pause)
Mr. Henry Bemis - conspired against
by brow—beaters and heh—peckers and
by clocks whose hands waggle
disapprovingly at him and always
disallow the moments he'd love to
use to read what he would.

(a pause)
In a moment from now, however, Mr.
Bemis will have his chance to read
in a world much different than the
one he knows — a world without clocks
or bank presidents; a world for that
matter, without anyone!

8. Mad. close shot door to president's office As the two men
arrive. Carsville opens the door, motions Bemis in, then
squares his small shoulders, goes in behind him, and slams
the door.

CUT TO BLACK: OPENING BILLBOARD--FIRST COMMERCIAL-—FADE ON:
9. INT. CARSVILLE'S OFFICE [DAY]

The bank president sits behind a giant, extravagantly neat
desk where everything is in carefully placed piles. In front
of him stands little Henry Bemis, his hands folded in front
of him.

CARSVILLE
Now, Mr. Bemis, I shall come to the
point of our interview. I shall arrive
via the following route which is
namely: what constitutes an efficient
member of this organization. Viz — a
bank teller who knows his job and
performs it, i.e., an organization
man who functions within an
organization! You, Mr. Bemis, do not
function within the organization.
You are neither an efficient bank
teller nor a proficient employee.
You are a reader, Mr. Bemis.

BEMIS
A reader, sir?

CARSVILLE
A reader. A reader of books. Of
magazines. Periodicals. Newspapers.
Pamphlets. Brochures. Catalogues.
Advertisements. Tracts. Ad infinitum!
When you're waiting on customers you
have a book in your lap. When you‘re
making the daily tally sheets, one
eye is on a printed page. I see you
constantly going down into the vault
downstairs during your lunch hour.
Do you know how I became president
of this bank, Mr. Bemis? I was a
teller once myself, you know. Thirteen
years a teller, I'm proud to say.
Became a bank president because I
would spend my lunch hour in the
following manner. Five minutes
sandwich. Two minutes milk. One minute
cookie. Fifty—two minutes spent
learning of banking and finance.
Practicing adding up figures.
Subtracting. Dividing. Compounding
interest. And after twenty—one years
passing through the ranks - you know
how I wound up?

Bemis shakes his head miserably.

CARSVILLE (CONT'D)

I wound up as president of the bank.

(he drums his fingers

on the desk)
Ultimatum, Mr. Bemis. You will
henceforth devote your time to your
job and forget reading — or you'll
find yourself outdoors on a park
bench reading from morning to night -
for want of having a job: Do I make
myself perfectly clear?

BEMIS
(nods humbly)
Yes, sir, you do. It's just that-

CARSVILLE
(impatiently)
Just that what, Bemis? Make it quick
and then get back to your cage.

BEMI S
(forlornly, softly)
It's just that...my wife doesn‘t
allow me to read at home. When I
come home at night and pick up the
paper, she yanks it out of my hand.
After dinner when I try to look at a
(MORE)

BEMIS (CONT'D)
magazine, she hides them. It's gotten
so that...I find myself trying to
read the labels on condiment bottles
on the dinner table. Now she won't
even let me use catsup.

CARSVILLE
Unasked I give you my reaction to
this. Your wife is an amazingly bright
woman. I remember last November you
spent the better part of the days
reading campaign buttons on customer's
lapels. You'll recall, Mr. Bemis,
the young woman who took considerable
offense at this and tried to hit you
with the umbrella.

BEMIS
(unhappily)
I remember that very well, Mr.
Carsville. She never gave me a chance
to tell her that I was only looking
at who she was voting for.

CARSVILLE
(rises and turns his
back, folds his hands
behind him)
Good day, Mr. Bemis.

BEMIS
(sighs)
Good day, Mr. Carsville.

10. Track shot As he turns and starts toward the door. He
pauses momentarily by a table near the door that has some
magazines on it. He tilts his head so that he can read the
cover of one of the magazines.

11. Different angle Mr. Carsville Who looks over his shoulder,
clears his throat warningly. Bemis hurriedly takes his eyes
off the magazines, smiles a little sick, and then hurries

out of the Office.

DISSOLVE TO:
12. INT. BEMIS LIVING ROOM [BAX]

SLOW PAN SHOT ACROSS THE ROOM, which is small, tidy, and
antiseptically unattractive, as if furnished by a woman yoga
whose basic tenant of living is self—denial. The CAMERA WINDS
UP ITS PAN on a shot of Mr. Bemis sitting in the corner of
the room with a newspaper. His wife's voice pierces the quiet.

HELEN'S VOICE
Henry? HEN—RY?

Bemis puts the paper down and forces a smile.

BEMIS
Yes, dear, I'm in the living room.

13. Full shot the room As Helen enters. This is a woman in
severe clothes and severe shoes and a severe face. She strides
purposefully over to Henry, back hands the paper out of his
hands.

HELEN
Do you want more coffee or don't
you?

BEMIS

No thank you, dear.

HELEN

Then tell me that and don't sneak
off into the living room to bury
yourself in newsprint! I think we‘ve
gone over this quite enough, Henry.
I won't countenance a husband of
mine sacrificing the art of
conversation—

(she stops, staring

at him)
All right! What's so funny?

BEMIS
Nothing dear. It's just that that
sounded sort of funny. A husband of
yours.
(smiles)
How many husbands have you had? I'm
the only one.

HELEN
(throws the paper
aside)
I would appreciate that not being
rubbed in: We're playing cards
tonight. I want you to change your
shirt.

BEMIS
Cards?

HELEN
(challengingly, ready
to pounce)
That's quite right — cards! We're
going over to the Phillips' house.
(a pause)
Well, Henry? Anything to say?

BEMIS

(looks up at her

tiredly, takes off

his glasses and puts

them aside, rubs his

eyes)
No, dear. Nothing to say. What time
are we due there?

HELEN
In about fifteen minutes. That's why
I want you to change your shirt. Try
to look at least remotely respectable!

14. Med. close shot Henry As with open and blind eyes he
feels around for the glasses.

15. Close shot Helen As she watches him, just a suggestion
of some strange and almost malevolent enjoyment of his
disability.

16. CLOSE SHOT HENRY'S HAND
As it gets close to the glasses.
17. Close shot Helen's hand As it moves them away.

18. Close shot Henry As he finally reaches them, picks them
up, puts them on. He looks up smiling at Helen.

HENRY
I'll be ready, dear.

Helen stares at him again with an undisguised dislike. She
whirls around and walks out of the room.

HELEN
See that you are!

19. Full shot the room As Henry rises, starts to walk out,
suddenly stops, bites his lip in deep concentration, cranes
his neck to look off into the foyer and the distant dining
room to make sure he's not being watched. Then he goes over
almost on tiptoe to the corner of the room to a small end
table, opens the drawer, feels deep into the back of the
drawer, and takes out a small pocket book. We can see its
cover which reads, "A Book of Modern Poetry." He looks at
the cover and smiles, puts it under his coat, then starts to
walk out of the living room.

20. Flash shot Helen As he almost bumps into her. She stands
towering over him like a prison guard.

21. Two shot
HELEN (CONT'D)

(in a very soft voice)
Henry?

BEMIS
(forces a smile)
Yes, my dear?

HELEN
What have you got, Henry?
BEMIS
Got?
HELEN
Got.
BEMIS

Why nothing, dear—

Helen reaches in almost gleefully to take out the small pocket
book hidden in his coat.

HELEN
What's this, Henry?

BEMIS
That?

HELEN

(nods)

This.

BEMIS

That’s odd. How did that get there?

HELEN
I could only hazard a guess.
(she looks at the
cover and reads)
"A Book of Modern Poetry."
(a pause)
Yours, Henry?

Bemis nods miserably.

HELEN (CONT'D)
Would you like to read me some, Henry?

BEMIS
(his eyes go bright) _
Read you some? Aloud? From the book?

HELEN
Do you want to?

Bemis takes the book from her proffered hand.

BEMIS
Why...why, Helen, I'd be delighted
to. This has lovely things in it,
(MORE)

BEMIS (CONT'D)
really. There‘s one or two from
Longfellow. Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Robert Frost. Carl Sandburg-

22. Mad. close shot the book in his hand As with shaking,
excited fingers he starts to open it.

23. Extremely tight close shot first page

And then all the others as he turns them. Each one has been
criss—crossed with a black pencil so that none of the writing
can be seen. He turns page after page. CAMERA PULLS BACK for
a MEDIUM SHOT of Bemis with his stricken white face under

the thick glasses.

BEMIS (CONT'D)
Helen? Who did that?

HELEN
Who do you think did it, Henry? You
should thank me, really! A grown man
who reads silly, ridiculous,
nonsensical doggerel!

BEMES
It isn't doggerel! There were some
beautiful things here-

HELEN
I say it's doggerel. I also say it's
a waste of time.

She grabs the book from him, rips at it with her hands,
tearing out pages that flutter out. Bemis goes down on his
knees, grappling for the pages.

BEMIS
Helen, please. Please, don‘t-

She continues to rip at the book and the pages continue to
flutter down. His glasses slip off and once again he's left
groping in a world without sight.

24. Angle shot looking up at Helen Her face distorted with
dislike. PAN SHOT down to her foot which is very close to
the glasses. We can see his hand nearby groping over the
floor looking for them.

25. Close shot her foot again

As it moves over to step on the glasses.

26. Angle shot looking up at her face Willful, purposeful,
evil.

J.Vu

27. Close shot the foot As it's about to come down on the
glasses. Just at this moment Henry's hand finds them,
retrieves them.

28. Angle shot looking down on him As he puts the glasses on
and looks up at her.

29. REVERSE ANGLE LOOKING DOWN AT HIM TIGHT ON HIS FACE
HELEN‘S P.O.V.

He rises very slowly, stares at the woman.

BEMIS (CONT'D)
(in a low voice)
Why, Helen? Why do you do these
things?

HELEN
Because I'm married to a fool.

BEMIS
There'll come a time, Helen. There'll
come a moment when-

He leaves the rest unsaid.

HELEN
(challengingly, ugly)
When what, Henry?

BEMIS
When I'll be forced to pay you back
for twenty years of indignities, and
cruelties, and misery—

Helen throws back her head and laughs, a shrill, piercing,
grating laugh which goes on for a moment then suddenly seems
to die in her throat as she stares at the intense face of
the little man in front of her and for the first time a look
of concern crosses her face which boarders on fear. Bemis
goes down and picks up the rest of the pages, crumples them
up in his hand, carries them over to a waste basket, puts
them in. Then he starts out the room.

HELEN
Henry—!

He stops but keeps his back to her.
HELEN (CONT'D)

Are you going to change your shirt

now? We've only got a few minutes.

Bemis slowly turns toward her.

.LaLa

BEMIS
I'm going to bed, Helen. I learned
those poems by heart. I'm going to
bed and say them to myself. And you
can't vandalize what's inside my
mind. You can't climb in there and
pencil out some beautiful language.

He turns and goes out of the room.

DISSOLVE TO:

30. INT. BANK [DAY] CLOSE SHOT CLOCK ON WALL

Which is just striking noon. PAN SHOT down the wall to a
LONG ANGLE SHOT of Bemis at his cage as he looks up at the
clock, pulls down the cage window, puts out a sign which
reads: "Next window please," takes a small lunch bag, pulls
a book out from the back of a drawer, walks slowly past the
cages over to the vault entrance.

31. Med. close shot vault entrance A large, heavy sealed
door that is partly opened. Bemis slips in behind.

32. Angle shot looking down stairway leading to vault As he
very slowly walks down.

CUT TO:
33. INT. VEULT ROOM
Flanked and crowded by safe deposit boxes, et a1. Bemis sits
on the floor, adjusts his glasses, opens up the bag, starts
to gnaw on a sandwich while he reads, voraciously,
delightedly, all-consumingly.

34.—37. Different angles Bemis As he eats and reads. First a
small book, then a newspaper, then a pamphlet.

38. Ned. close shot newspaper

That he's laid aside neatly as his feet. The headline stares
up. It reads, "'H Bomb would mean total destruction,’ says
scientist."

39. Angle shot looking over Bemis's shoulder Toward newspaper.

40. Close shot Bemis As he takes out a pocket watch, looks
at it, puts it alongside in view.

41. Different angle Bemis Looking toward him from the
newspaper so that both the headline and Bemis's face are
visible.

42. Pan shot across the floor

Over the newspaper toward the watch. At this moment there's
a loud rumble that grows and grows and grows until suddenly

J-é.

it's an earsplitting, detonating, all-consuming, giant moment
of thunder.

43. Extremely tight close shot pocket watch As the glass
over its face cracks.

44. Extremely tight close shot newspaper As suddenly dust
and plaster start to drip on it.

45. Close shot Bemis As his eyes beneath the thick glasses
suddenly look up startled. The walls and floor start to shake.
Cracks appear. Bemis slowly inches to his feet very alarmed
now. He goes to the door and starts to open it. He wrenches
it to get it open.

46. Med. long shot over his shoulder

Toward the open door and the foot of the stairway as a huge
flash of light and noise blasts him back.

47. Angle shot looking down on floor As Bemis lands head
first back into the room, dust and plaster falling on him.

48. Angle shot looking down at him As he lies motionless on
the floor.

FADE TO BLACK: END ACT ONE—-ACT TWO——FADE ON:
49. INT. VAULT HIGH BAT SHOT LOOKING ACROSS FLOOR

At Bemis who awakens from unconsciousness, struggles to his
hands and knees, touches his glasses, which hang askew off
one ear, then rises blindly, groping, not completely with it
yet.

50. Moving shot with him As he gets up on his feet, stumbles
over to the now smashed open door, which hangs on half a
hinge, walks up the debris—and-dust covered stairway.

CUT TO:

51. Different angle as he reaches the top Stands there looking
out toward what should be the interior of the bank.

CUT TO:
52. REVERSE ANGLE BEMIS'S P.O.V.

This is the interior of the bank as seen through his myopic
eyes, distorted, hazy, and completely out of focus.

53. CLOSE SHOT BEMIS

As with nervous trembling fingers he adjusts the glasses and
puts them on.

CUT TO:

J.Jo

54. REVERSE ANGLE AGAIN BEMIS'S P.O.V.

As seen just at the moment he puts his glasses on. This is

the interior of the room, smashed beyond recognition. A gaping
hole in the wall, tellers' cages, desk, money, beams,
everything lying around in smashed heaps.

55. Moving shot Bemis As he picks his way over the rubble
over toward the front door.

56. Different angle looking at him As he comes out the front
door and looks slowly from side to side.

57.—60. Series of shots Destroyed buildings, smashed beyond
recognition.

61. Med. close shot Bemis As he takes a few steps across a
concrete sidewalk and sits on what is left of a curb. He
looks to one side.

62. Pan shot across the sidewalk To what is left of a
newspaper stand. A torn and battered newspaper lies face up
on the sidewalk, just a remnant of its headline remaining.
It reads: "H Bomb"

63.-66. Different angles flash shots of the headline 67.
Extremely close shot Bemis As he buries his face in his hands.
CAMERA PULLS BACK until it's shooting long on Bemis, a tiny,
solitary figure of a man sitting in front of rubble.

DISSOLVE TO:
68. EXT. STREET BEMIS

He comes out from behind a corner looking around and over
his shoulder up to the sky, past rubbish and debris, as he
walks toward the camera. He suddenly stops dead, looking
across at something.

69. Pan shot over the rubble To the remnants of a glass
outdoor phone booth. About one pane of glass remains
unscathed.

70. Different angle Bemis As he walks over to it. En route

he sees its door lying off to one side. He slowly enters the
booth and almost as if in a trance lifts up the receiver,
dials a number. There's absolutely no sound in the receiver.
He puts the receiver back on the hook, turns and stands framed
in the entrance to the booth, looking out at the nothingness
that surrounds him.

71. Med. close shot As he touches a bruise on his head, looks
down at his fingers.

72. Shot over his shoulder toward phone booth As suddenly
the phone falls to the ground with a clatter of broken glass.
An odd sound of a bell which is like a death knell.

73. Med. shot Bemis

BEMIS

(very softly)
They're all dead. They must be.
Everybody's dead.

(a pause as he thinks)
Except me. I‘m all right.

(another pause)
Why am I all right? I was right in
the middle of—

(he stops abruptly)
The vault. I was down in the vault.
That's why I'm alive — because I was
down in the vault.

(another pause as he

takes a step out of

the booth)
The thing of it is, though...the
thing of it is...I'm not at all sure
I want to be alive.

DISSOLVE TO:
74. INT. BANK LONG SHOT LOOKING DOWN

Past the destroyed tellers' windows at Bemis as he walks the
same route he's taken so many times toward Carsville's office.
He pauses by his own cage, bends over, and picks out his

sign, which is warped and bent. He stares down at it, then
throws it aside.

75. Track shot with him As he walks toward Carsville's office.
He reaches the closed door, tries it, then pushes in on it
and it gives way under his pressure to fall on the ground.

CUT TO:

76. INT. CARSVILLE‘S OFFICE

Very little of it remains, except a section of the desk which
has been thrown as if by some giant hand to a corner of the
room to stand crazily on one end. Suddenly Bemis starts, as
the sound of a voice is heard.

CARSVILLE'S VOICE
And so, ladies and gentlemen, members
of the Interstate Banking Association,
I can only tell you that an adherence
to duty...a constant remembrance
that a bank, like a political office,
is a public trust...and a sense of
loyalty and devotion to duty is what
makes a bank great. These things
are of the essence. These things are
basic above all things. Just the
qualities I‘ve mentioned already.

.LxJo

There's a pause as Bemis takes a frightened, almost
nightmarish, compelled walk over to the desk.

77. Angle shot looking over the desk There's a lifeless hand
holding onto the microphone of a battery operated dictaphone.

78. Pan shot over to the dictaphone It still runs.

VOICE

That’s my speech for the Thursday
night banquet, Miss Jackson. Would
you type that up in triplicate for
me?

(then the voice

suddenly takes on a

kind of dead

repetitious tone)
Would you type that up in triplicate
for me? Would you type that up in
triplicate for me? Would you type
that up in triplicate for me?

79. Different angle the dictaphone As it suddenly bursts
apart.

80. Angle shot looking from behind the desk Up toward Bemis's
face as he closes his eyes at the horror of what he's looking
at, stumbles backwards across the room and then out the door.

DISSOLVE TO:
81. EXT. STREET SHADOW 0F BEMIS

As he walks. CAMERA PULLS BACK for shot of him as he steps
up a row of concrete steps that lead to nothing except a
yard full of debris.

CUT TO:

82. Angle shot looking down at his feet As he bends over and
extricates a mailbox torn in half. The name "Bemis" is on
it. He stares at it very thoughtfully for a long moment,
then looks up and around and illogically, wildly, calls out.

BEMIS
Helen? Helen, where are you?

He walks back down the steps, skirts them and walks over to
a large hole.

CUT TO:

83. Reverse angle looking from the hole up toward him As
once again he shudders at what he sees, then backs away.

DISSOLVE TO:

.LU.

84.-87. Series of walking shots different angles Bemis's
feet They pass signs on the ground which read, "Post Office,"
"Dime a Dance," "Bijou Theatre."

DISSOLVE TO:

88. EXT. STREET [DAY] LONG SHOT LOOKING THROUGH THE FACADE
OF WHAT WAS A GROCERY STORE

Half of the sign remains on the remnant of the window. On

the other side, on the high shelves laden with canned food,
sits Henry Bemis, an open, half—eaten can of soup lies to

one side, a can of beer to the other. He sits there, leaning
against one of the counters, staring off at nothing. He
reaches down to pull out his watch, pats for it, then realizes
he doesn't have it. Then he smiles sadly.

BEMIS

Maybe I can pick up a new watch.
Maybe I can find a jewelry store.

(then he looks up at

the canned food)
I won't starve to death anyway. Lots
of food. It'll last for years. For
years and years. All the food I can
eat. All the food and then some.

He takes a deep breath, puts his head back, closes his eyes,
takes off his glasses, and then very slowly drops off to
sleep.

DISSOLVE TO:
89. EXT. DESTROYED STREET [NIGHT] PAN SHOT DOWN SIDEWRLK

Until we're once again shooting in toward the grocery store.
Candles have been lit and Bemis sits on a packing crate,
reading the torn fragment of a newspaper. He lays it aside,
goes over to a shelf, takes out a carton of cigarettes, opens
up a pack, lights the cigarette on one of the candles. Then
he sits back down on the crate, takes a deep drag on the
cigarette, looks at the smoke as it streams out into the
quiet night air. Then he rises again, goes over to a box of
cigars, takes a handful and puts them in his pocket. He sees
a box full of pipes, empties it on the top of the crate,
selects one, puts that in his pocket, too. Then he crosses
over to stand at the broken window staring out into the
street.

90. Reverse angle looking toward Bemis

From the sidewalk.

BEMIS

(reflectively, with

little emotion)
The worst thing...the worst thing.
Is being alone.

(a pause)
Is this the way it's going to be? I
mean...I mean will it be just sitting
here on a box and eating and smoking
cigarettes and reading the same half
of a newspaper over and over again?

He reaches up and rubs his face, feeling the tremendous sense
of depression that suddenly weighs over him. He retraces his
steps back into what was left of the store, blows out the
candles, then turns and walks out the skeleton door frame

and out onto the street.

DISSOLVE TO:

91.-94. Series of moving shots Bemis walking night and then
day SUPERIMPOSE pics of destroyed buildings.

DISSOLVE TO:
95. EXT. STREET BEMIS

He lies on what was once a couch that has been flung onto
the sidewalk by the explosion. He opens his eyes, blinks up
at the sun, rises, dusting himself off, straightens his tie,
succumbing to a habit of a lifetime, and then sort of smiles
at himself, realizing what he's done. He pauses, looking off
across the street.

96. Pan shot over to a convertible That lies practically
unscathed at the curb.

97. Reverse angle Bemis As he smiles a little excitedly.
98. ANGLE SHOT LOOKING DOWN
As he runs over to the car.

99. Med. close shot car As he gets in, honks the horn, turns
the key. For a moment the engine seems to start and take,
then dies down. He tries to start it over and over again.
Nothing happens. He leans against the horn, his eyes close
for a moment, then gets out of the car and starts back toward
the other side of the street. Again he stops.

100. Close shot his foot As it kicks away some debris to
reveal a sign which reads, "Sporting Goods." His eyes go up,
looking toward a display case that's been turned over on its
side. He goes over to it, wrestles with it, finally turns it
over. It lands with a crash of broken glass.

101. Mad. close shot open display case In it are guns and
ammunition.

.LU.

102. Close shot Bemis's hand As he reaches in for a revolver,
takes it out.

103. Med. close shot Bemis As he sits on the remnant of a
curb and starts to examine the gun. He lays it down at his
side, stares forlornly out in front of him.

104. Different angle Bemis's face As gradually we see a
resolution taking form. Once again his hand reaches for the
gun. He picks it up and studies it again.

BEMIS

If it just weren't for the
loneliness...for the sameness. If
there was just something to do. Just
something to do.

(another silence)
I'm sure I could be forgiven for
this. The way things are...I know I
could be forgiven...

The CAMERA PANS OVER to a shadow on the road. We see the gun
in his hand. Slowly rising in an arc toward his head then
suddenly stop. The hand goes down. The gun falls to the
ground.

105. Flash shot the gun As it lands on the ground.

106. Pan shot across the ground To a set of concrete steps
covered by the remnants of a large sign.

107. High hat shot Looking toward Bemis as he runs toward
the camera.

CUT TO:

108. Extremely tight close shot sign As Bemis suddenly hovers
over it. The sign reads: "Public Library."

109. Long angle shot looking down From a high stack of books
at Bemis as he stares up in silent amazed, fascinated
wonderment.

110.—112. Different angles Bemis Walking through the
bookshelves.

BEMIS (CONT'D)
(as he walks)
Collected Works of Shakespeare.
Complete Works of Dickens. Collected
Plays of G.B. Shaw. Poems of
Browning...Shelly, Keats. Great Dramas
Of the World.

113. CLOSE SHOT BEMIS

As he stands at the bottom of one of the high racks and
suddenly in exultation pounds at it, screaming.

J.J-

BEMIS (CONT'DE
Books. Books. All the books I need.
All the books I want.

Several books topple over to land near him and he continues
to pound and shake, laughing, crying.

BEMIS (CONT'D)
Keats. Shelly. Shakespeare. Shaw.
Books.

DISSOLVE TO:
114. EXT. LIBRARY [DAY] LONG SHOT BEMIS

As he comes out from the center of a corridor carrying an
armload of books. The CAMERA PULLS BACK to take in a shot of
row upon row of books spread out in a line put there by Bemis
in neat stacks.

115. Mbving shot Bemis As he walks from stack to stack. He
sings songs as he goes past each stack hitting the top book.

BEMIS
January. February. March. April.
May. This year. Next year. Year after.
Year after that.

He stops at the last stack of books, turns to survey the
long line of stacks and then hesitantly, almost fearfully,
he reaches for the first book, holds it in his hand for a
moment, feels it, fondles it, then he tucks it under his arm
and walks over to the steps and sits down. His eyes scan the
rows of books that we see behind him, then down to the
pavement a few feet below him where there is a half—cracked
clock lying face up. He puts the book down, rises, goes over
to stand over the clock, smiles down at it.

BEMIS (CONT'D)
And the best part...the very best
part...there's time now. There's all
the time I need. All the time I want.
There's time enough at last.

He retraces his footsteps back over to the steps, sits down,
leans against a pillar, looks down at the book, which lies
open to its first page. He bends over to pick it up.

116. Extremely tight close shot his glasses As they fall on
the steps and break.

117. Extremely tight close shot Looking up toward Bemis from
the ground. The look on his face could only be described as
that of a man suddenly beset by a demon. First horror, then
fear, then a sick, all—pervading sadness and realization.

LU.

118. REVERSE ANGLE BEMIS‘S P.O.V.

The book and broken glasses, distorted, fuzzy out of focus

as his hand comes out from behind the camera, groping, touches
the glasses, feels of them, and then lets them drop. Then

the hand gropes over to the book, picks it up, holds it out

in front of him. The page is blurred.

119. Different angle Bemis Tears roll down his face. He slowly
rises, the book clutched in his hands. The CAMERA STARTS A
SLOW DOLLY away from him as he stands there all by himself
amid the books, crying.

BEMIS (CONT'D)
It isn't fair. It isn't fair at all.
There was time now. There was all
the time I needed. It isn‘t fair...it
isn't fair...

The CAMERA CONTINUES its dolly back until we're on a tableau
of the tiny figure of a man and the echo of his voice crying
in the silence, the rubble, the loneliness. Over this tableau
we hear the NARRATOR'S VOICE.

NARRATOR'S VOICE
The best laid plans of mice and
men...and Henry Bemis. The small man
in the glasses who wanted nothing
but time. Nothing but a moment out
of an eon of moments. Nothing but an
instant out of an eternity. Henry
Bemis, now just a part of a smashed
landscape. Just a piece of the rubble.
Just a fragment of what man has deeded
to himself. Mr. Henry Bemis...in the
Twilight Zone.

FADE TO BLACK.

