Water fell down on the city in a drizzle. Merciful enough to not be fully rain, but still cold enough that most people were staying indoors.  
A bright yellow cab, a stark contrast to the gray world outside, moved down the street with ease, not having to contend with traffic. Even so, the driver drove carefully, wary of the wet pavement and worn tires.
The inside of the cab was relatively quiet, the only noise coming from the old radio built into the dashboard. There were only two people inside: the driver, a fat man in a greasy t-shirt, and his passenger, a thin man in a suit and glasses. The driver was smoking, permeating the already-stuffy interior of the cab with the pungent smell of tobacco. The passenger coughed every now and again, too polite to ask the driver to stop smoking but bothered by the smell all the same.
With a final puff, the driver plucked the spent butt of his cigarette from his thin lips, cracked open his window, and flicked it out onto the street. The thin man in the backseat sighed, both in relief that the man was done smoking, and from the momentary rush of cool air into the cabin of the cab before the window was rolled up again. He seriously considered asking for it to be left open. 
"You got a name?" Asked the driver after a moment, glancing at his passenger in the rearview mirror.
The passenger cleared his throat and answered, "Joseph." 
"Joseph… Like the guy with the technicolor jacket?"
Joseph winced. "Yes, that Joseph. Though I believe it was a coat, not a jacket."
"Whatever." The fat man shrugged. "Where ya from, Joe?"
"Here." He watched as they drove past a woman hunched beneath a bright red umbrella.
They made a right turn at a light. 
"Got a girl?"
"No." 
"That's fine," he said as though Joseph had asked for his opinion. "What about a cat?"
"What?" Joseph shuffled in his seat, wishing for the window to be opened. "No, it's just me, I'm afraid."
"Nothin' to be apologizing for. Myself, I got a girl, a nice pretty one, and a dog, too." He jabbed at a picture taped to the dashboard. The woman in it was just as rotund as he was, wearing a top that was much too small to properly cover her berth and shorts that belonged on a woman half her size. There was makeup thickly caked on her face, and her hair was a greasy shade of blonde that could have only come from a bottle. Clutched tightly in her grasp was a tiny poodle, whose fur was so dirty it was impossible to tell its original shade. If anything, Joseph thought, staring at the picture, she looks like a female version of him. 
"She is very pretty," he said eventually.
"Don't be getting any thoughts of making a move on my woman, now," the driver growled. He squinted at Joseph's reflection in the rearview mirror.
"Believe me, sir, I won't." Joseph cleared his throat and looked out the window. Thankfully, they had pulled up outside of his house, sparing him from further awkward conversation. He paid the driver, bid him goodbye, and stepped out onto the street.. 
He forced his way through the old front door, pausing to loosen the sticky key from the lock. From upstairs, the insistent ringing of a telephone echoed through the sparsely decorated house. With an irritated sigh, he threw the keys onto the gray couch in the front room and grabbed the phone. 
"Hello?"