I stared down at the card in my lap. On the card in neat, block handwriting was a name, followed by ten numbers. A phone number. One I wasn't sure I should call.
        When the card was first handed to me, my immediate reaction was to throw it away. After all, the person who gave me the card wasn't exactly on my list of all-time favorite people. It belonged to Miles Quinn, a former boyfriend of mine that I haven't seen for years. The last I had seen him, he was walking away after breaking up with me for the nth time in the space of three years. Our breaks usually didn't lasted long. We were always drawn back together by the familiarity and routine of an old relationship. I expected the last break to be the same. When he didn't call after two months, doubt began to creep into my mind. After half a year, I accepted his rejection for what it was and moved on with my life. 
        We first met when he pulled me out of the way of a car that had jumped the curb and barreled toward me. I was working as a private investigator for an insurance company, looking into what I thought was a routine arson scam. The investigation led me to discover an unknown drug ring operating out of the cleverly hidden second property of the guy pulling the scam. Needless to say, that case earned me a few more unsavory characters than new friends. Quinn, then a local security specialist, helped me track down the rest of the drug pushers through some extensive background checks. We started seeing each other not long after that case wrapped up.
        For the next three years, our relationship consisted of snappy comebacks, nights spent with takeout and movies, and the occasional serious date when we had no work obligations. We fought often, though, mostly about me. Quinn felt my job was too dangerous and financially unstable. While he was right on both accounts, he couldn't understand why I did it. I've always enjoyed puzzles and I've never been able to sit still for a long amount of time. I got to set my own hours and for the most part, I am my own boss. Besides, I would argue back, his job wasn't exactly safe either. The company he owned, while mostly residential, was taking off quickly in the business sector. He was getting a lot of attention from large businesses who needed the security systems he provided, which I know from experience, are top of the line. Sometimes those businesses would be targeted by the seedier citizens of our city and needed to be dealt with. Sometimes those citizens would be armed and dangerous. I told him as much and it caused one of our longer breakups.
        It had been a surprise to see him after so long. It was hard to connect the well-dressed businessman with the cargo-wearing adrenaline junkie I once knew. He'd approached me in the middle of the grocery store, leading me to drop an entire carton of eggs. After apologizing profusely to the poor, pimple-faced kid who was sent to clean it up, Quinn quietly took me by the elbow and led me down the cereal aisle.
        "I'd like to offer you a job," he said. 
        "No, thanks," I said, not hesitating. I was loading my cart with healthy breakfast choices, like Froot Loops, Cap'n Crunch, and Frosted Flakes. Quinn noticed.
        "You'll kill yourself eating that crap."
        "At least it won't be my job killing me."
        "Come on, Mercy, that was years ago. Can we please move past that? You don't even know what I'm offering."
        "I know I don't want it."
        Quinn sighed. "What will it take to get you to listen to me?"
        I didn't answer, just pushed the cart past him to round the corner into the soup aisle. Quinn, never one to give up, followed. 
        "It's something right up your alley," he said, watching me grab different cans of Campbell's. "Missing wife, distraught husband, two kids." 
        "Sounds like you need someone actually involved in law enforcement." 
        Quinn sighed again. "You're not going to let that go, are you?" I snorted. "Look, I'm sorry for what I said. It was stupid of me to try to hold you back. Obviously you've done just fine without me around."
        This wasn't exactly true. While private investigating could be lucrative with the right clients, chasing insurance frauds hadn't really been paying much lately. Seemed like people were finally getting smart and not trying to cheat the people paid to keep their stuff protected in the event of fire, burglary, or other form of damage. Truthfully, I was barely making enough every month to afford things like groceries and utilities at my apartment, and sometimes I could swing enough to put into savings. I suspected Quinn knew this, but didn't want to minimize my quest for independence by insulting my bank account.
        "For old times' sake?" He asked, giving me his patented half smile, slightly crooked, giving the mistaken appearance of innocence. 
        I gave him my patented bitch smile, closed lips, sarcastically stretching my cheek muscles. "No."
I turned to leave, manhandling the rickety shopping cart around Quinn in the narrow aisle. Before I could make it all the way past him, he reached out and put his hand on my shoulder. With his other hand, he drew a business card out of his jacket pocket. 
"At least think about it?" His grey eyes pleaded with mine. "Please? I need your help."
I stared at the card for a moment before reaching for it. Our fingers brushed against each other as I took it from his hand. My eyes flicked up to meet his again.
"No promises," I said.


This brought me to where I am. I didn't have any current cases, so as soon as I left the grocery store, I went home. After putting away my purchases, I decided to clean. I was feeling agitated, my interaction with Quinn leaving more questions than answers. By the time I was done scrubbing the life out of my kitchen and bathroom, I still hadn't made a decision. 
Truthfully, I was flattered Quinn was asking for my help. It gave me a feeling of satisfaction about my work that I hadn't felt in a long time. Like maybe I was on the right track after all. On the other hand, why wait so long to reach out?
Quinn wouldn't ask if it wasn't critical. Even when we were together, he preferred (and I agreed) that we keep our professional lives separate. Whatever this was, it was big, and maybe over both of our heads. The thought scared me more than I wanted to admit, but also gave me a sick thrill. 
I let out a stream of air through my nose. He knew my curiosity would override my common sense any day. I sat on the couch, pulled out the card, and stared at it. Finally, I reached for my cell phone, which sat on the arm of the couch.
He picked up on the first ring. "Quinn here."
"It's me," I said. I took a breath. "I'm in."